---
layout: post
title:  Lilac Solutions Adds Thomas Wilson, Experienced Oil & Gas Developer, as Chief Development Officer
date:   July 25, 2019
category: "Press release"
excerpt: "Lilac Solutions has added Thomas Wilson to its executive team as Chief Development Officer. Wilson brings fifteen years of experience in natural resource development, operations and commercial transactions in the oil & gas industry."
external: false
hidden: true
sitemap: false
---

Oakland, CA – July 25, 2019 – Lilac Solutions, a lithium extraction technology company unlocking abundant new resources for the battery industry, has added Thomas Wilson to its executive team as Chief Development Officer.

Wilson brings fifteen years of experience in natural resource development, operations and commercial transactions in the oil & gas industry. He began his career as a petroleum engineer with Hess Corporation, focused on corporate strategy and asset development across five continents. Most recently, Wilson led the technical and strategy teams for Island Gas Limited, an AIM-listed energy development platform based in London, UK. Wilson successfully led IGas’ unconventional resource strategy, and executed on four major asset acquisitions and farm-ins with value in excess of $250m, in addition to boosting the performance of the company’s existing hydrocarbon production. Wilson has also served as Advisor to the British Government on energy regulation for Britain’s Department of Energy and Climate Change. He holds Master’s degrees from both Imperial College London and Stanford’s Graduate School of Business, where until recently he was a Sloan Fellow.

As Chief Development Officer, Wilson will spearhead Lilac’s project development efforts, with a focus on originating and executing on project opportunities with Lilac’s partners. 

David Snydacker, CEO of Lilac Solutions, said “We’re very excited to have Tom on board. His depth of experience, knowledge, and platform-scaling capabilities will complement our team and help Lilac execute our ambitious growth plans in the coming years supporting partnerships around the world.”